---
title : "Linux History"
date: "2023-10-08"
categories: [linux]
tags: [linux]
---

In 1970, Ken Thompson and Dennis Ritche (when both worked for AT&T) colaborated to create the first ever linux kernel nd ultimately the Linux Operating System.
The Brekeley Software Distribution (BSD) was released in 1977, but since it was based on existing Unix CodHe and that code was the property of AT&T,a lawsuit was filed and BSD development was made limited. 
In 1983, Richard Stallman started the GNU project to create a free Unix-like operating system, and part of his work resulted in the GNU General Public License (GPL) being created.
At first, Linux was a personal project started in 1991 by a Finnish student named Linus Torvalds. His goal was to create a new, free operating system kernel. Over the years, the Linux kernel has gone from a small number of files written in C under licensing that prohibited commercial distribution to the latest version with over 23 million source code lines (comments excluded), licensed under the GNU General Public License v2.

# Linux Principle

`Everything is a file`

All configuration files for the various services running on the Linux operating system are stored in one or more text files.

`Small, single-purpose programs`

Linux offers many different tools that we will work with, which can be combined to work together.

`Ability to chain programs together to perform complex tasks`

The integration and combination of different tools enable us to carry out many large and complex tasks, such as processing or filtering specific data results.

`Avoid captive user interfaces`

Linux is designed to work mainly with the shell (or terminal), which gives the user greater control over the operating system.

`Configuration data stored in a text file`

An example of such a file is the `/etc/passwd` file, which stores all users registered on the system.

